

DAVID THORBURN: You're right about that. But that's a more general answer than I wanted.

DAVID THORBURN: It doesn't have to do with the experience of movies. It's technical.

DAVID THORBURN: It depends on chemistry. It's become a global phenomenon. And it's more than a century old.

All of it derives from this chemical reaction, when the emulsions are subjected to light, the image appears on the celluloid. Because nature is eliminated in digital form. That might be going too far. In some of the more sleazy ones there were live peep shows. Strip shows of various moderate kinds. And this identity of film is incredibly important. You can create mass production. Because they're still in some fundamental way produced like this. All are relevant to this. And there are specialists at each level, on each phase. And a vast army of specialist is hired to handle the problems that are connected to the production of every single film. OK. And one might almost argue that it becomes one of the most important social forms in the society because it's so widely shared. Even the number of automobile drivers is controlled in a way that is contained or demarcated in a way that's less true. They've appealed across lines of social stratification, across differences of gender, across differences of age, across differences of race. That it's mostly a visual medium. It doesn't depend on language to the same degree. And the silent film was the perfect answer to this. This was before television, which supplanted that quality of movies. That was like 2/3 of the population at that time. So the advent of this new technology changed movies relation to its audience.

So we could also frame movies in other ways. But these framings I think, are helpful to us in part to remind us of some things that I'm not going to do. The theater owners, the popcorn sellers, the people who create the publicity for movies. We're connected to our cell phones. We're connected to our computers. In some prints it came at the beginning. In some prints it didn't occur at all.

DAVID THORBURN: That was at the very end. This is important film. It's one of the earliest story films. It's one of the earliest film to tell a sequential story. We'll talk a little bit about that in a moment. One, it's disturbing to us because it breaks the narrative. It seems unconnected to the narrative. When people had never seen movies before. It's a dead metaphor for us. We don't even think about it when we say movie. Films capture movement. In other words, the novelty of motion was so great in the beginning that the earliest film simply did this. And I want to talk a bit more about that. The first joke in the movies. The simplicity of it seems to us weird.

Motion itself captivated early audiences and filmmakers. Waves on the shore for example. There are a number of films that just show waves lapping on the shore. And it was an unbelievable scandal when it came out. It films a scene from a stage play. It was banned in many cities. Part of it has to do with this wonder that the film can capture actuality, in a way. And that's what he's doing. I'll get it. What is it? It's two seconds long. It's an advanced capitalist event. And it occurs in other societies less fully industrialized at later stages. But there is an equivalent history in some of the European cultures. And the movies are elaborating themselves in a complex way that has to do with the way in which they were industrialized. There are three phases to what we might call media evolution. A new technology appears. Nobody yet knows how it would be applied. How people will want to do. That happens over a relatively short space of time. I'll let it play behind me. But some of you may have noticed that this begins to change relatively quickly. He's always a convict or a low-life. It tells you something about the patriarchal societies in which films emerge that those mythologies are replicated in movies. But it actually is very significant. Now the date of this film is early, 1907, 1908, something like that. You're going to see one other silent film by D.W. I'll say a few words about that tonight.

I wish we were really just at the end, Greg. I didn't really want to show the whole film. What's happening here? The film has shifted over into a kind of silly comedy, a kind of gentle comedy. A melodrama has turned comic.W. Some people see it as one of the first urban crime films. This gangster is socked that this woman would choose his rival over him. Robinson's performances. In fact, Thomas Edison had a different idea for how movies would be developed. When he first conceived the apparatus, he actually thought that movie projectors would be owned by each individual. And that's dramatically the case with the system of distribution and access that was developed for the movies. It's not required by the technology. A very important point. This phase occurs after some of the warfare is concluded. Limited monopolies are established. And they begin to dominate the marketplace. They drive competitors out. That sort of thing. But I want you to be aware of them. And all films become more complex forms of narrative. In which particular genre forms begin to emerge. And audiences begin to choose particular kinds of films that matter to them. In other words, the system really elaborates itself in a way that suggests an immense variety of appeal to a range of audience.

DAVID THORBURN: The advent of sound. It changes the nature of film. And it changes the nature of the kinds of performers that you need in film. It profoundly enlarges and complicates what film is. I promise. I'll work for this. Because of new possibilities. And the intimate routine connection to movies that had been established in the studio era is finally obliterated by the presence of television. And movies change their character after television comes in. We will return to this. We will return to this matter. And we're finished after this is over. What's wrong with him? His father asked. He's so nasty, she said as she always did, so vulgar. And this story takes place before Chaplin was making feature films. When comedy was still being made as shorts. Comedies didn't become feature length until sometime late in the '20s.

His father laughed as he always did. And Rufus felt that he had become rather an empty joke. He felt that the laughter enclosed him with his father. And there was William S. Hart, a silent film. This time Charlie stole a whole bag-- this time.

 

This time Charlie stole a whole bag of eggs. I'm going to skip it. And it shows Charlie sort of flirting with the girl. And she pretended she had not noticed. I'll see you tonight.