 And I'll come back to the implications of that analogy. And it's complicated because it makes us reassess our inherited notions about what art is, and where art comes from. They were storefronts for the most part. You didn't have private seats. And you would sit in there and see a series of short films.W. Griffith. Birth of a Nation. A very complicated example, because it's content is disturbing in some ways. From a technical standpoint it is an astonishingly important film. And from a content standpoint it's a very disturbing film. It's a wonderful reminder of the fact that this progress I'm describing to you is not an unalloyed triumphal story. And they have a tremendous technical interest. And we'll talk more about this when we reach certain genre forms in the second segment of the course. It's hard because I'm enthusiastic about what I'm looking at. We're watching the discovery of the language of cinema in these early films. That is to say. And the field would become an equivalent or a kind of a photo album, although it would have motion it. In fact, it wasn't impossible, it was just incredibly ahead of its time. But there was no reason in terms of the possibilities of the technology that that needed to happen. And even sometimes individual's psychological factors. The truth is much more complicated than that. In which particular actors become identified with particular kinds of roles. The elegy is a poetic genre. There's a Western adventure story. There's a historical spectacle. And there emerge especially certain forms of satire and comedy.

So what genre system begins to emerge as well? And there are reasons of course why this kind of thing is useful to a mass production system, to an assembly line system. They can use the same set. They can use the same hats. So economies of scale become possible as the system begins to regularize itself. Once it stabilizes after that period of imitation and patent warfare. And it puts out in touch with the paradox that's at the very heart of what I hope to make you aware of in this course. Nothing noble or admirable about it. I hope you'll keep in mind as we go on. The very first film that you've seen. But I want to remind you about a couple of highlights. After a while the novelty wears off.W. And you can feel his own excitement at the possibilities of this astonishing technology. And the length or the shortness of cuts also affects sort of the rhythm of your experience in the film. He creates the principle of parallel action. But the camera will not track. And that itself is a fundamental discovery. How the theater is different from the movies. The joke is visual. The joke involves motion. The joke involves a recognition of the powers of cinematic representation to tell stories. You do you're editing between shots. And he knocks his glasses off.

The properties of the medium have to be understood before you can really begin to explain them. None of the short films I've shown you are completely without some technical interest. But I certainly would make arguments for them as technically fascinating documents. And I hope you'll look at them in that light.

So the shot is a basic unit of action cutting between scenes. What happens when you place the camera in a particular position. It creates a greater illusion of depth in the image, for example. And it does other kinds of things. That there's back projection used in that. We're so used to location filming that we can pick out-we today can see through the process shots of earlier films. Because Hitchcock used a lot of process shot effects in his films. There was a convention of film going. That there's much less use of process shots. It's not only that the film is the most profoundly realistic medium that was ever invented. It was made in 1911. In a way it's the most advanced film of its time.W. They began to develop the formal rationalizing strategies that led to the making of movies as we understand them. It was one of the first films to have this format.

And this also required a preplanned shooting script. And she has to take over running the train station. That remind us that she is still nonetheless a weak vessel. That she is still a damsel in stress like the typical Victorian construction of women. In which at one point in the film you'll see a sequence of scenes in a particular shot. It creates a kind of continuity and clarity to the whole film. Because a lot of the action then will depend on our understanding about geography. It happens four times in the film. So the film has a kind of visual coherence. And in fact, if we were working perfectly chronologically in terms of when Chaplin became a director, he would precede Keaton. It was made in the sound era, in 1936. Keaton comes into movie making a little few years after Chaplin. But his career has a similar trajectory. And in fact, he learned a lot of his acrobatic feats on his parents stage act. He had very long hair. And he would sweep the floor with his hair. It would look terrible. And Keaton was sometimes injured. This much more sort of textual coherence in Cops.

And this becomes one of the deep principles of Keaton's comedy. And this sequences at the heart of James Agee's essay on the silent film comedy. The joke becomes more than a joke, it becomes a kind of comment on experience. It becomes a kind of comment on what life is like. And he crawls all over the train. While the train is running he'll crawl up to the front of it. He'll run to the back of it to put more fuel in. It's not faked in any way, because there's a camera following the train as it's moving. You can see it moving on the track, and you can see the world behind it. And you can tell that Keaton is not taking these effects. And you'll see a couple of examples in the films you going to look at tonight in which we see Keaton exploring in a somewhat systematic way the nature of the illusion of motion pictures.

There's one remarkable comical moment in One Week. And it's actually a very disturbing moment in a way, because it interrupts the narrative flow. Whose hand did it? It's not a character in the film. He's interested in the technology of the motion picture camera, and what kinds of manipulations are possible. Now Keaton himself could never articulate his own ambitions in this way. He would laugh. He wouldn't even understand what you were talking about. At which there's a certain point at which entertainment becomes so complicated that it's more than mere entertainment. That multiplicity, that density, that texture is what we associate with works of art. It wants to present information to the audience. That's a very good answer.

DAVID THORBURN: Michael. Thanks, Michael. That's very good. I want to give information to the audience. OK. That is multiplicity. That's what I mean by the multiplicity principle. They're not really likely to help them. Keaton's jokes repeatedly depend upon the idea of accident in a certain way. But I want you to be aware of these issues. And this is where the complexity of Keaton's vision of life comes in. And he's alone on the ocean liner. In which he dramatizes an astonishing hurricane. We live in a contingent universe.

The idea of contingency is at the heart of Keaton's jokes. We could call them jokes about contingency. The word contingent is interesting. It means possible. In law you can say that something that is contingent is dependent for its effect on something that may or may not occur. But it's a perfect example of what I mean, a partial example of what I mean. Because he is not responsible for the fact that he escaped. The truth of the matter is that life is much more contingent than that. And something deeper than that. It doesn't give a damn about us. It's not aware of us. It's too big for us. It's a much more complex variation on what I said about Lonedale Operator. The film begins with him going up the track. When he goes up the track, he has a series of adventures. It's incredibly elegant structure. It's not just the culmination of Keaton's career.W. Griffith.

And it also goes back in a certain way to the very roots of film. Because they would have lived through the history. They would have seen D.W. Griffith.