MITOCW | 3.edu.
Bitcoin is just the first use case of blockchain technology.
And I have a few computer scientists in the room that are going to bail me out if I don't get this
right.
GARY GENSLER: Terrible life choice. But he's going to bail us all out.
I'm not going to do much cold calling. I don't want you to relax too much.
I list four. Good.
GARY GENSLER: You read it five years ago. And
you're taking this class. There are so many of them. And then this whole concept of digital signatures, which
relates to asymmetric cryptography.
You can send an email to two people and that's OK. But you can still send it to two places. I watched
that demo last November, December. That was one of the first things I watched. I don't know if you knew Bosworth. Crazy. We're going to talk a lot
about consensus next Tuesday when we talk about the consensus protocol on Bitcoin.
Fiat money is just in that long line. It doesn't mean
it's going to go away. I'm not a Bitcoin maximalist who thinks that Fiat currencies are going to
go away. And those records could either be transaction records or balance records. We'll
see that Bitcoin is set up as a transaction ledger system. But
transactions and ledgers are at the core of Bitcoin. We know this. It's why I'm not a maximalist. And this is not a value judgment. But in some circumstances, decentralization really will compete and
beat the centralized intermediary.
So information, blocks going on. And that leads to basically a database.
Other blockchains like Ethereum it's about every seven seconds. And this is true in
all databases.
GARY GENSLER: It's all right.
GARY GENSLER: Hash function. I'm going to have 10 on this
page.
AUDIENCE: A private and a public key. Leandro.
AUDIENCE: Addresses.
GARY GENSLER: Bitcoin addresses. Three.
AUDIENCE: Timestamp server.
GARY GENSLER: Timestamp server. That's four of the things. This is going well.
AUDIENCE: Double payments. But it's--
AUDIENCE: Miners. Kelly.
AUDIENCE: The full node versus the lightweight node. So very interesting, this concept of nodes. But nodes in
the network is a very important design feature.
GARY GENSLER: Merkle tree structure. Merkle tree
structure is there. We're going to talk about that. Two more.
AUDIENCE: Nonce.
GARY GENSLER: Nodes.
GARY GENSLER: Nonce. The nonce. OK. So a nonce. That's how I've learned it. Whew.
AUDIENCE: Pria.
GARY GENSLER: Pria. Cryptographic hash functions. We're going
to go through these in more detail. So Merkle trees were discussed. The Bitcoin
addresses themselves, which interestingly are a little bit different than public keys. Just the network communication. It's not written about a lot.
There's currently about 10,000 nodes on the Bitcoin network. We don't know where all of them
are, but they're probably in 180 different countries. And it matters to the economics a lot.
There's a native currency. This is interesting that it was the one thing that no one said. That's
an actual technological design feature. It's not only that he created a currency, but the native
currency is part of the economic incentive system. And we'll have some fun with that. Hugh? Hugo?
About 17 million Bitcoin right now. And all 17 million have come from this process of proof of
work and mining. Because
you weren't getting much incentive.
AUDIENCE: Sean.03
a kilowatt hour.02 cents a kilowatt hour to the
local government officials.
So cryptography. It's not just communication in the
presence of adversaries, it's also computation in the presence of adversaries.
about asymmetric cryptography today. But it has certain properties. But zip
codes. You might have 50,000 people or 5,000 people all living in one postal district. Problem with zip codes is it will not in any way be a secure hash function.
It's deterministic. And that's relevant to the background. And you can efficiently compute it.
You don't want to take a year to do this. You've got to do it in short periods of time. It's always-you only live in one zip code, in a sense. And it's very
efficient. It just
wouldn't. So hash functions, I just say this because you can't
assume that Bitcoin can't be broken. We all call it immutable. It is immutable. Until the hash
functions that are inside of Bitcoin might be broken.
And even Satoshi wrote about this in 2010. He got emails. Kelly. You're talking about in his paper. And he doesn't write about that in his paper.
Second key cryptographic thing. And in fact, if we got it past 26
people in a room it's over 50% chance that two of you have the same birthday. We don't need
to get to 183 people in the room, which is half of the days of the year. We can get to about 26
or 7. It's not impossible. It's infeasible.
They also look terribly random. You're not going to get tested.
But there's still-these things could be broken. So much more than one
quadrillion. And anybody who's
interested can come to office hours. But it's also used in commitments.
You'll hear these words. We're not going to delve into them. That's
like zeros and ones for 256 registries. So Haber and his colleague-yes. You got it.
GARY GENSLER: That's you roommate. Terrific. He did this
in 1991. I don't think it took off that much. And they're basically hashing any document. Any document that
you want a timestamp in that week, you put it in.
It's not about money. But there is a version number. It's less than 200 gigs. But all of the
headers, I think, is single digit gigs. So Satoshi was thinking
in advance.
So whoops.
A timestamp, that one's easy. We can get that.
GARY GENSLER: A random number that's used one. Number once, nonce. And that's hash functions. We are MIT.
AUDIENCE: No. No. Somebody does recall. There's no dumb questions when it comes to this. They are timestamped. The
timestamps are very important. But you need the timestamp.
GARY GENSLER: You need the timestamps. It's
the order of the blocks.
GARY GENSLER: I want to hold that question for Tuesday. And that doesn't mean that
they got identical hashes because the puzzle is not geared to getting an exact hash. The
Bitcoin puzzle is having a certain number of leading zeros. I'm sorry. It reminds me of that old television show with Johnny Carson. And you just did a
great setup for the comedian.
So Merkle Roots, which are a binary data tree, looks something like this. They're each hashed. But in the Bitcoin core
application, in software that anybody in this room could download the software if you wished. But it
doesn't seem to use the previous hash. It only changes if some of the data in the
10,000 transactions change. But that wasn't your question.
I'm just saying. You'll scoop up the
next set of transactions. It's a
good question. There
you go.
She wants to encrypt it. He decrypts it
with his private key. I know. Both people had the key. And the math between
these two keys don't matter for a class like this. They're bonded together.
But the critical thing is about digital signatures, there's three functions. You have to generate a
key pair.
There is a signature function. You can create a digital
signature from a message and a private key. You send it over to Isabella.
GARY GENSLER: She's got to verify it.
Isabella-you want to do this with me-is going to verify your signature is valid for this
message because you have the public key.
Isabella has your public key. It's
magical math. It's real math. But it's not math we need to study in
this class. That digital signature was created from the private key. And the
public key was created from the private key. But she never has to see the private key. And in fact, Kelly does not want
her to ever see the private key. And it's encrypted with her
private key. It's also digital signatures. You generate the key pair.
AUDIENCE: A quick question about the random number generator and the verification function.
At the heart, I want to skip ahead. I'm not a cyber security expert. There's stronger ones. I put that up. The details
don't matter much. It's about 512 bits. But these are early forms of
checks. And there's a signature on the bottom. That's really kind of a Bitcoin address. The address, the Bitcoin address is who it's paid
for.
And I promise last slide. We're going to be talking about this next week.
But the input is a previous transaction. And you're
going to send value in Satoshis. He named the unit of count for himself. There's a lot of
Satoshis in every one Bitcoin. That's why we don't hear much about Satoshis.
And it's sent to a public key. There's a lot. I wonder how many of you are going to
come back on Thursday.
No. It's not just that we're at MIT. But we are at MIT. Everybody in
this room can get these kind of key concepts.
AUDIENCE: Andrew. And that can't be changed in the future.
GARY GENSLER: New York Times. And it's secured through hash
functions. I don't know. You know if somebody has tampered. This is one of the ways to make this data
tamper proof. But the commercial enterprise, the central authority has a way to
update the software. We probably sign some terms of use that allows them to do that.
And that comes both with benefits and costs. You
can come to your own judgment over the course of this semester. That's what we covered really. But we're going to talk about proof of work,
the nodes, and the native currency. It is called cryptocurrencies. It's cryptography. So right? Cryptography, consensus mechanism, transactions. And we will get
through it.