
Very important.
We're going quantum.
And that's why this is a very exciting day for me.
It's why I have t-shirts.
It's also a goody bag day.
This is how we ended our lecture on Wednesday.
And we talked about how those were destroying the ozone layer of this planet.
And this is what it looks like.
It is absorbing light in the higher frequency, which means lower wavelength.
And that is what you have right here.
You have a way to see that visible spectrum.
Or you can look at things around you with it.
And what are you seeing?
You're seeing this.
You're seeing it in this part.
That's why I wanted you to have this power, this power, which means responsibility, as we know.
You can see electron transitions. z equals 1.
And that's it.
n is equal to 1, 2, 3, et cetera.
It's quantized.
This was the whole kind of discussion and theme of Wednesday's lecture.
I'm just plugging in.6 electron volts.
That's hydrogen.
That doesn't look like that.
And this is roughly 2.75 electron volts for that wavelength 2.
I'll pose a problem.
It has an electron transition.75 vb.75 eV is equal to minus 13.
z equals 3.
And this is part of the problem that we need to address and solve today before the weekend.
z is 3, and it works here.
That's ionization. A whole lot of it is ionized.
It's getting ionized from energy that's knocking electrons out.
And this is what you see.
I want it to just be free.
That's here.
That's infinity.
So a little example.4 eV.
I get the delta E equals minus 13.4, that's what I have.05.
No.
Panic.
Everybody should be panicking.
No.
Mm-mm.
I can't.
But I can't get to 1.4 eV.6.
This is minus 3.4.4.
And I can because I've got 12.4.
But that energy, it's still in the electron.
I transferred that photon energy to the electron energy.
I already alluded to that.
And I said that's where we're going today.
It doesn't work for anything more than one electron.
It was derived for one electron, and that's where it stays.
And some of the work that went into this was really critical.
And it was like this collision that particles do.
De Broglie went further.
And everything has this duality.
Anything has a wave nature, anything.
And light has a particle nature.
We are faced with a new kind of difficulty.
We have two contradictory pictures of reality.
This is where they were.
And that's from Dr. Quantum himself. Quantum. Quantum explain.
And it changed everything.
And I don't care if you see it in another class. Quantum.
--are.
The granddaddy of all quantum weirdness, the infamous double slit experiment.
The line of brightness on the back screen shows that intensity.
This is similar to the line the marbles make.
And with waves, we get an interference pattern of many bands.
Good so far.
It's my favorite line.
I love that line.
It behaves just like the marble, a single band.
What?
An interference pattern.
But physicists are clever.
The conclusion is inescapable.
But physicists were completely baffled by this.
But the quantum world is far more mysterious than they could have imagined.
You can see why I show this.
We do movie night at home a lot.
You get together with some friends.
There's no better way.
It was mindblowing to them at the time.
There are some things in life where you can ask questions, and you can understand them.
You can answer them.
Because I put comfort over stylistic norms.
I could ask a harder question.
I could ask a harder question.
That's a harder question.
This was mindblowing.
They actually took-forget about electrons.
This is a whole group of 60 carbon atoms.
That's called the fullerene.
And they shot this through-they did the double slit experiment with this.
You get interference.
They have these incredibly strange properties that you just saw in the double slit experiment.
Gesundheit.
You can't get them both.
We need something more.
And I'll get to that.
I want to do my why this matters.
We could see with electrons.
Those are x-rays or gamma rays.
In that case from this relationship, you would get that it's about 0.12 nanometers.
The wavelength of a simply accelerated electron is right where I need it.
It's right where I need it.
And I can see them at that scale.
This is called graphene.
Gesundheit.
That's pretty cool.
And I'll give you examples throughout other lectures of how these kinds of materials can be used.
And this is what happens when you actually look at them with an electron.
The only reason we can see graphene is because we have electrons.
And we take advantage of the wave nature of those electrons.
He gave a famous speech at Caltex called There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom.
They had 35 xenon atoms.
It changed everything.
And nature had been doing this.
And I love these examples.
I love the silk moth.
The male silk moth has a single molecule detection system onboard that can sense a single molecule
pheromone.
We have nothing like that.
We have no technologies like that.
I can't even tell if someone's in the next room.
You're seeing a single atom of graphene, and you're seeing what happens under a certain kind of
irradiation.
And you're seeing this hole.
And you're seeing the hole grow.
And I'm controlling how I make that.
It's seeing things at this scale.
Because you can see what happens.
But this looks really fun.
They're making waves.
This is how we need to describe an electron.
An electron-by the way, it just occurred to me that you should take this on that same day.
But it can transition.
They're waves.
They're like the water.
And I'm going to describe them.
I'm telling you about it because it completely revolutionized chemistry.
And that is where we will answer that question on Monday.