MITOCW | MIT3_091F18_lec30_300k
Thank you for that.
Happy Monday after Thanksgiving.
And we'll do some additional problems and kind of review.
OK, but we still got to get through the rest of acids and bases.
This is sour.
Acid.
Acids are donating H+ ions and protons to the solution.
And bases are donating OH-, adding more of those types of ions into the water.
It's everywhere.
H+ is actually H3O+.
But the H+ is not stable in pure water.
But we know that it's the same thing.
That's huge.
That equilibrium is so far over.
This has found an equilibrium.
And you could write a similar expression for the base, Na+, OH-.
And that's going to go over NaOH.
And we're going to come back to this at the end of the lecture.
These are both strong.
You can take the log of these.
It's all just thinking about these equilibrium constants.
It means it lies very far over to the right.
It's almost full-means that I have 0.05 moles per liter of OH--by the way, and Na+.
And we know what this is.
They're just-a base dissolves in water.
An acid dissolves in water.
Neutral would be-if I'm in pure water, Kw is 10 to the minus 14th.
So neutralization is basically the act of making it neutral.
Gesundheit.
You get this.
It takes H+ from the solution.
You cannot make this.
I'm neutralizing you.
But it still neutralizes.
These are proton transfer reactions.
That's an acid-base reaction.
OK.
That's a broader definition.
And this would love to accept one.
In the same reaction, we have a name for this.
Notice what happened.
That's my acid.
That makes it amphoteric.
It can take or give protons.
NH4+, NH3, right?
OK.
We've talked about conjugate acids and bases.
And it has to do with what I started with.
In fact, they're mostly here.
Those are strong bases.
It has to do with dissociation.
It has to do with dissociation.
That's why it's a strong acid.
There is a big distinction I want to make.
That's what it means.
There's the H that came off-proton transfer.
No.
I'm locked into that by this.
And it's talking about the concentration that I get in the water.
I'm stuck.
It gets its own board.
I can dissolve a lot of vinegar in water.
They're all strong.
They go mostly to completion.
And you can think about the weak acids in the same exact way.
These are the strong acids.
It's all about the strength of the proton.
A lot more or a lot less might come off.
You take a minus log, and you talk about pKs.
Good.
But we can answer questions like this.
I have no choice.5 times
10 to the minus 5 moles per liter.
Good.
OK.
But you could go through the same exercise with HNO2.
And you can just calculate the pH from this.
And the pH is equal to 1.35.2 moles per liter solution of a weak acid.
And it's 9.4% dissociated.
It's all about the H+.2 moles per liter times 0.4%-times 0.2 moles per liter.
And that equals 0.
I didn't give the pH.
All I gave you was how much of it dissociated.
But that's OK, because we now know that this is what counts.
Those are not.
They're on the carbon.
In phosphoric acid, I've got three hydrogens.
And that goes to H2PO4plus H3O+.5 times 10 to the minus 3.
Minus, 2-, all right-plus H3O+.
And there's one more, plus one more.2 times 10 to the minus 8.
And the third one is 4.
And that's important.
It depends on the molecule.
It just has an equilibrium that's not as far over.
It's just proton transfer.
It's just proton transfer.
We've already talked a lot about Lewis.
So Lewis correctly said acids and bases are not even about proton transfer.
They're about electron transfer.
It wants electrons.
And I'll see you guys on Wednesday.