
We're now going to add to it.
They're not regularly repeating.
And there is a reason for this.
And he thought about all sorts of things.
And you can see if you look at this picture, you can draw a box like that.
It's called a unit cell.
I can tile all of space.
I filled all of space.
I filled all of space.
Those are called the lattice vectors.
I didn't really say what I'm putting there.
In Escher there's ducks.
That is how we're building up our knowledge of crystals.
I could take a lattice vector like this.
This is a square lattice.
And I've put something at each place-a circle.
But I might ask a question.
The area of maximum packing is a very important parameter.
My sides are equivalent.
So radius equals 1/2 a.
I'm in 2D.
That's what everyone does.
And we're going from 2D to 3D.
Those are all great topics.
And there are only seven.
In this class, we're only going to focus on one, and that's the cubic system.
But they take cubic symmetry.
Each one has a length a.
That's pretty cool.
And for the cubic system, there's only three.
These are the three types of lattices that have cubic symmetry.
It's really cool.
And I had wanted for these to be what go in your goody bag.
You've got to do that.
It's really cool.
That's really important.
And in this case, we're going to take spheres.
We're going to be taking spheres because that's how we're going to represent atoms.
I've got to do the same trick I did here.
I've got to write the radius of the atom in terms of the unit cell.
I'm going to be drawing a 3D structure.
And you can see what's going to happen as I do that.
That is at the max packing.
It's real.
These spheres are now atoms.
We don't know yet.
But it feels kind of low-52%.
That's not very-that doesn't feel like a lot.
Anybody know what it is?
Of course-it's polonium.
That's a really good conversation starter.
I'm just saying.
That is a great way to meet people.
They're so high energy they're like close to the speed of light.
They're relativistic.
Their mass is heavier.
All sorts of interesting things happen.
I promised a video.
We're coming to it.
Like you're figuring out how many atoms are in the cell.
And by the way, this was not 1 over a.
It was.
We'll bring more.
Where's-it's only polonium.
My lattice is giving me this.
You get together with friends.
You get together with friends, and you build even more.
And that's my cube.
And you go like this.
That's BCC.
For a simple cubic, it's the cube edge.
There's another one.
There's actually two atoms in a unit cell.
There's two of these.
You've got two.
With full-size spheres, you can see that the particles don't touch along the edges of the cube.
Close-packing But each corner particle does touch the one in the center.
Eight eighths give one particle.
And it's got more packing.
And so the nearest neighbors is 12.
There's two diameters worth that go across that face.
The number of atoms.
But each corner does touch a particle in the face.
Eight-eighths at the corners gives one particle.
Those larger spaces mean an inefficient use of space.
Because of this inefficiency, the simple cubic unit cell is seen rarely in nature.
That simple change leads to 68% of the available volume occupied by the spheres and a structure
based on the body-centered cubic unit cell.
For the most efficient stacking-Now watch this.
That's what he meant to say there.