
And I want to talk about how this looks in the context of some of the chemistry that we've learned,
some of the things that we've learned.
It's not diffusion.
But diffusion kind of has taken on this broader meaning.
And that means to spread out.
And that is what's happening here.
You probably don't have any.
So the concentration of the dye out there is zero.
OK.
And this is the original paper that he wrote way back in the early 1800s. What a nice, detailed title.
That was Brown.
And he looked at it.
And it looked like this.
This is must have to do with biology.
And things are alive.
And they did the same thing, they jiggled around.
And it did the same thing.
They did the same thing.
They all did the same thing.
What was going on?
This is the microscopic basis.
This is now called Brownian motion.
It's random motion due to thermal energy and collisions.
I got that.
I see it in the microscope.
I don't know.
And it really came from Einstein in 1905.D. work was on this topic.
And it's diffusing around, diffusing around.D.
This is in three dimensions.
If you're in two dimensions, it's 4.
If you're in one dimension, it's 2.
But the main point isn't that.
That was pretty cool.
That was pretty cool.
And that's why it's called Brownian motion.
You're going to normalize it.
That's also an amount, moles.
Grams, moles, et cetera, n number of atoms.
And then the time is usually seconds.
And Fick's first law is all about that.
We'll draw an arrow.
Concentration is C.
Bracket A, concentration of A, mass per liter, something like that.
I'll use the letter C, delta C over delta X.
It didn't take as long as Einstein.
But this was 1855.
And I notice that it depends on the concentration difference.
And in particular, I like it when diffusion is positive.
And that is Fick's first law.
Gesundheit.
There's the concentration gradient.
And we got a minus sign.
Notice, movement down a concentration gradient.
Then the droplet wouldn't spread out.
When I've got a bigger change in the concentration, I've got faster diffusion.
There's no time.
I get that.
But in a little bit, we're going to connect it to crystals.
I found these gloves, because I was looking for copolymers.
This doesn't have it.
This is butyl rubber.
It's copolymerized with these two groups.
They also use the chemical resilience.
I have a toxin.
This is why we wear gloves, because we don't want to get methyl chloride into our skin.
Methyl chloride is toxic at 50 parts per million.
These feel comfortable.
The gloves are 0.04 centimeters thick.
And I'm working with paint remover.
I'm working with paint room.
I've got concentration over a length.
This is a 1 D.
And you've got the Brownian stuff going on.
It's all in something.
There's Brownian motion.
There's just a lot more of them.
There's a high concentration.
I bring the methyl chloride to the glove, to my hand.
And I keep the concentrations of the endpoints fixed.
That'll create a diffusion gradient.
That's why concentration gradients cause diffusion.
And on the skin I've got 0.04 centimeters.
And this goes to something like 2.
But that's important.
And it would be changing.
No.
I should have used the nitrile.
This is serious stuff.
This is serious stuff.
And it's so serious that I want to talk about eggs.
The rubber glove stops this toxin.
It's the coolest thing. That's a selective
membrane.
This is what you can do with eggs.
They're so cool.
We don't need any volume.
You know this.
You've done these reactions.
You soak them in vinegar.
The egg has a really cool membrane.
This isn't cooked.
This is just a raw egg.
So the concentration gradient is enormous, because the liquid inside the egg doesn't have any sugar
in it.
So the water inside the egg wants to diffuse out.
18 hours, you pick that membrane up.
It's a really cool membrane, the egg membrane.
It's a semi-permeable membrane.
The water inside has left.
And you can make green ham that way.
And that's osmosis.
But it's semi permeable.
If you want to play with a really cool semi-permeable membrane, that is cool.
And you really will see Fick's first law at play.
And we are not going to learn the details of entropy in this class.
But there's a whole other part that's related to the entropy.
And we're not going to go into this in detail, like I said.
You won't be tested on this.
But I got to bring it up.
It may be dominated by entropy. No!
That's not true.
That is not true.
They've got the same exact number.
But in this case, you restricted it.
But this has a higher entropy.
And that is what entropy is about.
Entropy is about the number of possibilities that you have.
But under the hood of entropy is possibilities.
A salt atom in the crystal has very few possibilities.
We talked about diffusion.
We looked at drops.
It moved.
And there's the end.
You see it moved over by one position.
There's the atom going through.
So the vacancy moved that way.
The atom moved that way.
It had to get over some activation.
We looked at it in very simple terms.
We understood it.
So one thing you know about that diffusion constant is it will have a temperature dependence.
We're in our happy place with this.
It's Svante.
It's still going to happen.
You might also get something like this.
And this goes back to our discussions of defects in crystals.
You might get an interstitial diffusion.
And we'll get to an example of that.
You can really connect it to what we've learned.
And these are experimental measurements.
Those voids are bigger.
There's more space.
It's not as well packed.
There's iron, iron in BCC Fe compared to hydrogen in BCC Fe.
Gesundheit.
So it might take that path as it diffuses.
It's going to find the voids.
Diffusing atoms find the voids.
You can have an octahedral side.
You've got tetrahedral sites.
Those are other voids in the crystals.
These are some just fairly straightforward questions that you could answer.
Iron or hydrogen in alpha iron.
It's like what we just talked about.
H is smaller.
These are conceptual questions.
And then five, Mg, this is a good one, because hydrogen in platinum or hydrogen in magnesium.
And you look it up.
But one of them has a larger radius.
This is happening through the voids.
This is how batteries are engineered.
This is why we have a revolution in batteries.
There so many great review articles on battery technologies.
And one of them is usually carbon.
You've got manganates.
You've got cobalts, cobalt oxide materials.
There are so many battery materials.
They all work the same way.
But the crystal has to stay.
And that's something goes over to the anode.
It gets soaked up there.
You are diffusing them.
That's what you're doing.
You are diffusing them through whatever structure you're putting them into.
These high conduction channels, these highways.
The lithium diffusion and a battery material is related to the charge time.
And these are good materials.
There's the lead-acid battery that's still in your car.
This is what's in your cell phone.
I go this way.
I don't want to go that way.
I want to go this way.
Polymers, you could imagine that a polymer is slower.
We want them for many applications.
And I want to set this problem up.
But I want to set it up. The next thing that's related to diffusion is time.
And it's got to have mechanical integrity.
It gets too brittle.
That's cold case hardening.
It gets into the material through diffusion.
You've got concentration.
You've got temperature.
And you've got time.
And you have to know those parameters.
And that is Fick's second law.
And Fick's second law says that the change in concentration with time is equal to the diffusion
constant per the second derivative of the concentration.
That's Fick's second law.
I kept these fixed.
And I got a flux.
We'll do this example of case hardening.
We'll do a few more comments on the class.
We'll reserve for you to do evaluations.