
And I showed you how that worked.
You're using it in your goody bag.
And what I told you is that that bond energy is related to the lattice energy.
It's in a notation I've been sneaking in.
That's salt.
But the lattice energy is going to be related to that bond energy.
And ionic solids, there's a whole bunch of materials that form solids this way.
They're ionic solids.
They're not always these properties.
They tend to have high melting and boiling points.
They're mostly electrical insulators.
But these are the general properties of ionic solids.
We'll come back as we learn about other solids Wednesday to the differences in properties between
different types of solids.
OK, so that's where we ended.
This is a critical part of what we need to learn this semester.
So the first ionization energy, which is how much energy it takes to remove an electron from the
outer shell, the most outer shell electron, the first one you would take away.
That's the first ionization energy.
I'm going to start here.
And that's first ionization energy.
And this is just the atomic number.
These are just pictorial.
It's not moving around like this.
That's our classical minds fighting.
And it's got one more electron.
And that's lithium.
It's got all of them.
But I'm showing the one that was added.
And that's why beryllium is smaller.
And the ionization energy got lower.
Salute.
Half filling.
And you can group them.
Those are also often called the main group elements.
They're in the first couple of rows of those.
They're the most abundant elements.
We can actually really understand it all.
And then the same thing happens with the d.
By the way, these are often called transition metals.
They're also called transition metals.
They transition.
But the same trends hold.
The same trend holds.
This is visible light.
You got a spectrometer.
This is a continuous spectrum.
That's pretty high energy.4 EV-ish.
But that's right around here.
And this would go to something like 100,000.
I'm going to get it from some photon source.
And I want to know about these atoms.
It's dependent on the frequency.
There are the frequencies.
It goes right back to the photoelectric effect that Einstein was doing.
That's what I want.
I want that ionization energy.
But you turn it over.
It would look like this.
That's it.
And that's what you measure.
So the relative peaks, I've got two more that can come out.
It's the relative electron count in the atom.
This is 122.4.
It's incredible.
You get it turned over.
You can do this.
They all say lithium.
Photoelectron spectra.
There's one.
Gesundheit.
It's got a charge of 2-plus.
And we'll be using it in the class.
And this tells us about how electrons leave atoms.
Because I shine enough energy light to get them all out.
You have ionization energy, which is how much energy it takes to pull an electron out.
You also have electron affinity.
Because some atoms also might want electrons.
Some atoms like chlorine really want another electron.
It's so close.
It just needs one more electron to fill that outer shell.
And it wants it.
That's what this is.
Today, the answer is obvious.
Danish wind, people are very dependable.
Because Arizona does have clouds.
And that's what we need to do.
But it also is a very low areal density.
And there are also a lot of environmental challenges with making this work in a way that doesn't
harm the environment.
There's my picture.
And the only way to stay neutral is to pump an electron out.
It's all about ions.
It's like a ski lift.
And that's just cruising across this electrolyte.
It doubles every 60 years.
But that's completely changed.
That's completely changed recently.
And the reason is all about ion shuttling materials and ion storing materials.
This is why this has happened.
This is why we've had a revolution in electrochemical energy storage.
There's many hundreds in research labs.
It's all about the chemistry that houses those ions.
It's all about the chemistry of the ions.
Nature has done that for us.
This is good, a lot of energy per weight and volume.
One MIT professor, one MIT professor operates at around 60 watts.
And I burned it.
That's our challenge.
This is why this matters.
We're not even close.
And there is the dots.
I didn't have to write 1s2.
So fluorine has seven dots until you reach the valence, until you reach the valence.
And we talked about this before.
We talked about this before.
It tells us about bond formation.
And it makes the assumption that the valence electrons are what matter for chemistry.
And this is critical.
And I've alluded to this before.
From these energy diagrams, you have a sense of this.4 electron volts.
It doesn't matter.
I'll get 'em all.
So these dots are only valence electron dots.
And there's one more rule.
It's confusing.
1, 2-s-block.
13 to 18-p-block.
3 to 12-d-block.
Even the periodic table talks about it.
It shows it.
In this case, it's 2.
In this case, it's 3, in terms of the quantum number.
But we'll learn about that.
Carbon-hybridisation.
Silicon-no.
We'll get to that.
This is how we see carbon.
And you can write this.
Because I've got 7 valence electrons in fluorine and 1 in cesium.
That emphasizes.
It emphasizes what happened.
But I'm emphasizing that this is an ionic bond that's happened.
It's got a super-high electron affinity.
Cesium has a very low ionization energy of its first electron.
And so fluorine just took it.
It literally just took it.
I'll take that.
It's not even.
And that's OK.
But fluorine said, take, take, give.
Fluorine took it.
It's OK.
They make it work.
They want to reach their 8 electrons.
But fluorine is still just f-minus.
There's no dots left.
It took it.
And it is minus.
You can go further.
I think we'll stop there.