 And that's what we'll talk about today. Good. The concept map. Now the thesis of 3. And then the chemistry you put inside. But you see
the other thing about it is defects. We
have to understand them. Either way you got to understand them. Pretty cool-every atom's on the surface. you know more publicity on your work. It's three atoms thick. This is reality. That's reality. That's reality. that's called a point defect.
The periodicity the repeating of the lattice. Alumina. It's in a lot of stuff. It's still got some. That is key. That's just
color. You know. They don't really go off in a line. They don't go off in a plane or a
volume. But these are points. Today: this one. That's called a vacancy. It's because there's an atom that's vacant.
That's another-Why is that a point defect? Because I didn't like tear something out. We're gonna start and focus a lot of our attention on the vacancy. Vacancies. this guy was brilliant. Svante Arrhenius. He was brilliant. But he also worked on immunology. And his predictions were actually pretty darn
good. He was brilliant. And the
activation energy for that process. Where we talk about reaction rates. I'll talk about each of these. But this is sort of the rate. The rate of some process. I mean you could think about it as the number of times something happens per second. There's some
average of the distribution but you're always talking about distributions. That's important for
understanding Arrhenius. Now this thing here is called the activation energy. Activation
energy. You can think about it like that. That's why I like this
analogy because it really gives you intuitive feeling for what's happening here. There's a process.
The process is pushing the bookcase over. That bookcase has some energy associated with it. Potential energy. You're pushing the bookcase over. Thermal energy.
They're able to give it more energy. That's what that is. It
looks kind of hard from this picture. But there's a chance. We will be coming back to this when
we do reaction rates. But that's
exactly the point. No. Vacancy is always present.
There's always a chance that I push a vacancy into the material. There's also always a chance that
the vacancy gets pushed out.
the very nice expression for concentration. So the concentration at equilibrium.
That's how you get a concentration. The number of vacancies divided by the total number of sites is equal to e to
the minus E vacancy. RT.
Per mole use RT. This is
used for a lot of things.
Gas constant. That's equal to-let's see if i have down here-8.314 joules per mole Kelvin. They got to cancel. One thing-notice that's per Kelvin. Whenever
you have equations like this that come from thermodynamics, which is where these things come
from. There is only one temperature unit. And it is Kelvin. All of these
equations have to use Kelvin. What's the first thing you want to do? I mean it's like an-it's
almost like an instinctual reaction. You see an exponential. Minus log of n equals E vacancy. That's just taking an exponential, a logarithm of this equation. This pre-exponential factor cancelled. It canceled because I'm taking a concentration. And I get to take a ratio of those.
That leads me to this expression. That's how you get from Arrhenius rates to some concentration. It's okay. Lattice sites. I have my crystal. I think I'll stop here.
That energy is literally the energy difference. So that's-Okay.
E vacancy. That's fine. Alright. That are Arrhenius-like. But this is one of the labs that they have where they
take crickets and they measure the number of times a cricket chirps. And they count it. Chirps per 13 seconds plotted. But the lattice-the
number of vacancies is what we want. That concentration is in
equilibrium at some temperature. The lattice-the number of lattice sites is simply how many
lattice sites you have, in whatever volume you have, for whatever crystal structure you have, for
whatever element you have. R. You will see both. You will see both. Alright. It's a straight
line. It's a straight line. The
slopes are different. That's why the slopes are different. Alright. It all has to happen on the surface. It all comes to the surface. This is a beautiful paper, where they're showing
how you get these rings. You know
what that means. You know what that means. You're just going to apply this Arrhenius-like behavior.
You're going to apply this equation to figure that out.4 grams per
mole. And I won't go through the math but it goes something like 2.2 times 10 to the 19th
vacancies. Vacancies per centimeter cubed. You might also be asked questions like this one. What-Example two. I'm
actually giving you how many vacancies you got, at some temperature. I'm using kB because look at that.75 eV per atom.9, aluminum
.75. This seems like-0. No. The vacancy formation. There are exactly 500 beads in this. It's a 2d crystal. This is here.
There's so many more. There's so many more because I use temperature. This is temperature. You
are temperature. I'll just quietly go down in
temperature and I'll get rid of them.
You'll never get rid of them. You can try to tap it like that. You can't. Everything. This is your goodie
bag. If I take a sodium atom out. You can't do that. It won't let you. It's got to come too. And there are two types of defects in ionic
point defects. We're still with point defects. Local disruption in the regularity.
Cation. Charge neutrality. We know this. You got to keep the charge balanced. We never got above about three
quarters.
So Frenkel defect is the other kind of special name we give to a vacancy in an ionic solid, and it's
where one ion-right-anion or cation. Anion or cation. Moves to some open space. Open space in
the lattice. Like silver chloride, silver bromide, silver iodide. Those are all good examples
because what happens there is this ionic structure has a very big mismatch between the atom
sizes. And you actually can get a conductor, a good conductor, this
way. We make these solid-state ionic conductors. You need the vacancies.
You need the vacancies. We've talked about literally
just one. Those are
high energy defect. The self-interstitial has an energy of formation of something like you know five electron
volts.
Self-interstitial. Self-interstitial. The energy energy of formation is 5ev.9 ev.