
And that's polymers.
It's kind of like a broken bond.
And they don't mind.
I'm going to go Lewis.
And chlorine is hungry.
Chlorine wants to fill its octet by itself.
I'm strong.
I'm just going to grab from methane.
And it takes it in the form of the hydrogen.
That electron is not happy.
That's all.
You can't blame it.
That dot is the unpaired electron.
It's going to come along.
You can take one of mine.
Those are antioxidants.
But that's not the topic.
And the reason is that I've got two bonds.
And this is the first kind of polymer I want to talk about.
And it's called a radical initiator.
Radical initiator.
The key is in the double bond.
So R plus C.
Those sticks have hydrogens on the ends.
I can take you.
Those are those two hydrogens that were there.
And I've got this.
This has an unpaired electron.
We'll often just write it.
And I haven't broken the bond.
They're all over the place.
And this radical version of it sees it.
The thing stays radical until it finds another R dot.
New radical.
You see how it works, because I'm making a chain, and I keep on adding the same building block, the
same molecule.
That's really important.
We're talking a minimum of 100 times.
Mer, C2H4.
And you put the monomer inside.
So the chain bonds are sticking out of the edges like that of the parentheses.
Polymer chemists aren't as-the crystallographers, you don't want to upset.
Polymer chemists are fine.
It's not so bad.
So a couple of things we can talk about.
So polymer, monomer.
1 Dalton equals 1 gram per mole.
We can say like a Da.
Or kDa for kiloDaltons.
It's just grams per mole, thousands of grams.
Macro.
It's huge!
It's a long chain.
You just think about how the length is on the order of-I'll spell it out-microns.
We've been talking about a lot of different materials in this class.
Perfect crystals.
Crystals with defects.
Amorphous materials.
Molecular solids.
And that means that different things can happen.
If I've got spaghetti that that's long, you better believe it can tangle up.
I'm feeling it with the O.
And that's per polymer.
And we'll talk about that more on Wednesday.
These are really long chains.
It might have some similarities with glass.
This is going to have the lowest volume per mole.
How much of it crystallizes?
A micron, by the way, the length is also important.
So optical properties will depend on these things.
Polyethylene is right there.
There is the monomer.
There is the polymer.
A radical initiator put in a soup of those monomers can form polymer chains.
I can form polymer chains.
I came out.
And I get Styrofoam if I put air through it as I make it processing.
Or I can make all sorts of other things out of it.
That's polystyrene.
That's polystyrene.
But all sorts of things are going to change.
When I say talk and I'm talking about chemistry, I mean bond.
This is C hundreds of thousands.
This is why this was so exciting when it was-polymers were first made really in the '40s and '50s. It's only 30 seconds.
It's tough.
Really tough.
That was one of the keys.
That was a very big deal.
That was a very big deal.
And they really started-in a lot of ways, they started the revolution of plastics and polymers in
commercial products.
That's a 2 liter bottle.
This is another plastic injection molding machine.
This forces the preform into a bottle-shaped mold.
And it's things that you already know.
These are plastics.
It's per minute.
91% of them are not recycled.
We are all polymers.
We are all polymers of different types.
Amino acids, sugars, cellulose, keratin.
Nature does this in so many ways.
And of course, by definition, these are biodegradable.
And there's a lot of places where you can get some data.
And the thing is that we have to think very carefully about what we're doing.
And we have not done that with regard to polymers.
This is how polymers are used today.
Packaging is 40%.
40% of plastic produced today is in packaging.
And the thing is-sorry.
In 2050, the plastic in the ocean will equal the weight of all fish.
Those are called microplastics.
Polystyrene is toxic.
The styrene molecule is toxic.
People who eat seafood in some studies are estimated to be eating 11,000 pieces of microplastic a
year.
There's a plastic bottle.
There's fishing lines.
This is clearly a problem.
And I want to tell you about a book that I read when it came out a long time ago.
It's a wonderful book.
And I got reintroduced to it last week.
It's free.
It's a free download.
WithoutHotAir.
Because he just goes through sort of simply the math.
And the reason I'm bringing this to your attention-he doesn't really talk about plastics.
That is true.
You talk about this with the plastics in straws has gotten a lot of press.
And companies kind of do their part.
Single-use plastic again.
They walk away.
The plastic in the ocean is 0.03% from straws.
We can't think little about problems like this.
We can't.
We can't do that.
This is called Ocean Cleanup.
And it's at least thinking big.
There's a lot of bold claims that they're making.
A lot of bold claims, a lot of hype.
It can't go below that.
It's not going to collect below a centimeter.
This is a very big problem.
We have no choice.
Nylon can't be made that way.
Nylon can't be made that way.
And this way is called condensation polymerization.
OH.
That's a dicarboxylic acid.
It's carboxylic acid.
And this one, I'm also going to have a box.
I've got NH2.
NH2.
And that's called an amine.
And this is called a diamine.
These two pieces react.
You've got C. There's my carboxylic acid.
I've formed a carbon-nitrogen link.
NH2.
And that bond is called an amide link.
That's very powerful.
Before we had the mer.
And I could make the mer whatever I want.
We couldn't do it.
Nylon is when the box winds up having a carbon chain in it.
Six carbon atoms.
It's six carbon atoms in the boxes.
You can play around.
You can put lots of things in those boxes.
You've got one molecule in solution on the top.
You can tell.
It's the slightly lighter liquid.
This is nylon.
So the box is six carbon atoms.
There is a piece of solid coming out of two liquids.
That's how nylon is made.
And we'll talk about this in the context of the things we're going to learn more about polymers and
polymer engineering.