
And you can have rate loss based on experimental measurements.
Today, we're going to talk about how things dissolve.
That's cool-because there's little bubbles.
It's 800,000 years of data.
And that number is going up.
You look at the food chain of the ocean-there are three things at the bottom.
That's one of them.
There's photosynthesis.
This is one of the main kinds of animals that lives at the bottom of ocean because they've got these
very small calcium carbonate shells.
At the rate we're going-like decades of time from now-that's what happens.
And you're going to dissolve this powder.
You're going to dissolve these shells.
Some of you are going on planes, and there's white powder and a scale involved in this goodie bag.
Today we're just talking about dissolution.
These are molecules that look like that.
There's a picture of it.
The water has dipoles-dipole-dipole.
And so the water sees this crystal of sugar, and it says well, hang on.
The water molecules are already bonding with hydrogen dipole. I've got dipole.
In fact, it gains energy by doing this.
They can gain.
That's technical.
It has hydrogen bonding potential.
It's got h-bonds.
Everything has London.
They've got dipole.
We want to understand how things mix with other things.
Ethanol up there at the top.
It's only London.
Heptanol is down at the bottom, and there's the water solubility.
We've got to write that down-solubility.
Methanol, ethanol miscible.
You can't mix as much as you want.
That's what they did.
That's 100% proof that it's good.
That is true.
We're going down to heptanol.
We talked about sugar.
We can write it out.
This started as a liquid.
It is in an aqueous solution.
It's all over the place.
What did you do on the arrow?
I added water.
We're just getting comfortable with writing these dissolution reactions.
And other vitamins are fat-soluble.
That's why you not have unlimited amounts of vitamin A. That's not good for you.
But vitamin C-no problem.
No problem, because it's going to dissolve in water.
This is it.
It's hydrophobic.
There is no such thing as a hydrophobic interaction.
No, hydrophobic interaction is misused.
Hydrophobic, hydrophilic.
You've got sodium chloride solid.
We put it in water.
That's going to go into ions.
It has a particle of sugar that's got millions and millions of molecules in it.
Those are neutral.
That's why salt dissolves-because it can find a happy place.
Other reasons exist outside of this class, like entropy, thermodynamics.
It can become happy.
And you see it's listed there as moles per 100 grams.
And you could write it in moles per 100 grams.
You could write it in moles per liter.
That's m form last Friday, the molarity.26 moles per liter.
That's how much sugar you can dissolve in water.
That's 429 teaspoons.
I'll go the other way.
They're not even close.
Too much sugar.
So salt-you can also look at salt.
That's 6.14.
This is nacl.9.
I've got to make these happier.
I've got to make them happier.
So it all kind of goes together with the things that we've learned.
We've reached a dynamic equilibrium.
This is salt.
Max.
And that's why we're going to talk about next.
They're going away into solution.
You see that little particle there coming back.
That happens.
But much more, they're dissolving.
It's going both ways.
That is what we've been talking about.
Precipitation.
This is a dynamic equilibrium. I pour a teaspoon of salt in water, and the salt
is dissolving.
So the concentrations of these things-at a certain point, they're changing.
It's a dynamic equilibrium.
I've been talking about the rates being equal.
That's not from the rates.
The reaction quotient comes from the stoichiometric coefficients.
That's where you get those exponents, and they're directly from the stoichiometric coefficients.
These concentrations aren't changing.
The reaction quotient is related to the concentrations.
It's a dynamic equilibrium.
k represents a dynamic equilibrium.
I just said it.
But it doesn't matter-if we're-it depends on temperature.
That's a general constant.
We are in this class going to use it for solubility.
That's how we are using the equilibrium constant.
Equilibrium constant that is related to solubility.
It is literally the product of solubilities in equilibrium.
It's just an equilibrium constant.
There are many.
And so one of the things you've got to-so nacl-that was kind of easy.
That became a cation and an anion in solution.
Bromine-you can also have a carbonate.
And you know about these things.
We've been talking about these things.
We'll do a few examples.
We'll get into the mood.
But for silver chloride, it's different.
For silver chloride, it's different.
And I'll talk about this curve.
We're coming to it.
We are coming to it.
I can get the maximum solubility of it.
I don't know.
But I do know that the solubility product that this equilibrium constant for sodium chloride is 1.7 times
10 to the minus 10th.
It's between the ions that are dissolving.
That's not going to change.
That's not going to change.
Common misunderstanding.
It doesn't change.
Solubilities concentrate.
This is them.
So solubility product-right there.
I used the definition of equilibrium constant.
1 in front of silver, 1 in front of chlorine.
I like it.
So ICE is initial change equilibrium.
Initial change equilibrium.
It's just a way of keeping track of what I just did, because I started with some amount of solid, and I
had zero.
I put it into water.3 times 10 to the minus fifth.
It becomes helpful.
It will find equilibrium.
This is what we're going to work with.
There's the concentration of chlorine.
There's a concentration of silver in ions.
q is less.
It's gone too far.
But you can see that equilibrium can also be had and will be had.
It shall be had.
Because k never changes if you fix the temperature.
I can go and add a whole bunch of chlorine, and it will come back down onto that green curve.
Units of k depend-it was like the rate law.
It depends on the reaction.
That was deep.
Units are capital M moles per liter.
But that means that k-k is two of those multiplied together.