
This is much like the last time, when I gave you guys the concept map.
And you're asked to bring to the quiz the voltmeter and these large LEDs.
Laura will also send a reminder email about that.
You and voltmeters.
You never know when you need a voltmeter.
You should always carry it with you with the periodic table.
Today, I really want to focus on this case.5 electron volts.
I want to spend today talking about semiconductors.
Those are called semiconductors.
Semiconductors.
They're all kind of right.
These are really special materials, these semiconductors.
And I'm going to use diamond and graphite as an example.
This was a 1D model of s orbitals, 1s orbitals.
All that depends on more than just those atomic orbitals.
It depends on more.
It depends on how these things are bonded.
Its carbon.
But on the one hand, I've arranged it in a certain way.
Diamond has a gap of 5 and 1/2 electronvolts.
5 and 1/2 electronvolts.
But the only way to do that is to have four equivalent orbitals.
Those are hybrid orbitals.
We talked about this when we talked about hybridization.
And it's going to form those bonds along each direction.
I'm talking about one mole of SP3.
That's what diamond is.
That's not what diamond does.
The valance band is full.
The conduction band is empty.
That's diamond.
5.5 eV gap.
One mole of SP3 in diamond.
It also split.
It doesn't just depend on the initial states.
It depends on the structure of those atoms.
It depends on how those atoms are bonded together.
We did a lot of this earlier.
There's a continuum.
There's no states.
There's no electron.
Photon emitted.
And that gets me to another important point, which is on the absorption side, I can overshoot this.
And that's called thermalization.
That's thermalization.
That's a good thing.
I might be injecting electrons at different parts of these conduction bands, but this is always green,
and this is always red.
And this is what's inside of the emitter.
It's the same thing.
But these two semiconductors have different band gaps.
That's why the light is different.
They have different band gaps.
And that's something we're going to talk about today.
Electrons cannot move around easily if they're in the valence band.
Shine red light on it.
With this goody bag, you're touching and feeling semiconductor physics and chemistry.
Because band gaps in materials are rare.
This semiconductor range here is in the range of light we care about-visible, UV.
For LEDs, it was blue.
In fact, there was a lot of work around gallium nitride.
There's gallium nitride.
It's not on here.
Gallium nitride in other structures have different gaps.
There's one.
And that was really hard.
Because without blue, you can't make white light.
Band gap engineering is really the centerpiece of the semiconductor revolution.
We've been talking about connectivity.
And we'll talk about metals on Friday.
10 to the minus-wood.
They're not very good conductors.
That's why they're called semiconductors.
But the fact of the matter goes back to what I've been saying.
I said this on Monday.
They're stuck in states.
They need freedom.
And for an electron, freedom means I can go to any state that's nearby.
I've got to go this way.
It's scattering me.
I'll go this way.
The conduction band has 10 to the 24 states.
Freedom.
Freedom.
I can move in response to this field that's pushing at me.
I can conduct.
I can't do that unless I have conduction, unless I get electrons into the conduction band.
This is OK.
And there's two different ways that I want to talk about.
The first way is simply with heat, and this is why I mentioned this on Monday.
At room temperature for silicon.1 electronvolt gap.
Silicon, 1.1 electronvolt band gap.
It's a really important semiconductor.
And for silicon, at room temperature, I got about 10 to the 10 electrons in the conduction band per
centimeter cubed of material.
This is how we think about it.
We think about how many of these do I have per volume.
It's a good way to measure it.
These are also an electron in a conduction band also is called a carrier.
Kelvin is the thermodynamic energy scale, temperature scale.
10 to the 15 carriers per centimeter cubed.
If I want conduction in these semiconductors, I've got to put electrons up in the conduction band.025 electronvolts.
That seems way smaller than 1.1 eV.
It is.
But that's because that's not what temperature really looks like.
There's a distribution.
Hotter means a wider range of energies.
That's why I've got a little bit of electrons that get up there at room temperature.
There's the log connectivity of silicon.
Totally different behavior.
Today, we're interested in this.
I can get the connectivity up orders of magnitude higher for silicon.
I'm populating.
I'm getting over this gap, and I'm populating the conduction band.
Chemistry gets us.
You've got to know your chemistry.
And in particular, this is not the doping that you may read about in the news related to Olympic
athletes.
An impurity is something that wasn't there normally.
It's like something I mixed in that's not normally there.
And in this case, I'm talking about the connectivity.
If I didn't arrange them in this particular way, I might not have that band gap.
I might not have the same band structures.
It depends.
But this is what I get for the silicon arrangement when the band gap is 1.
Silicon has these four valence electrons.
It's tetrahedral and stuff.
That was close.
But phosphorus is right there.
That's doping.
No states.
I can't go anywhere here.
It can't go in here, remember.
This is all filled.
It's really small.
I've thought about it.
There's an extra electron that comes out of that.
The extra electron needs a state.
It gets a state.
That's called a donor state.
Once I get the electron into the conduction band, I'm home free.
That's substitutional doping.
How much phosphorus do I need?
You can solve that problem.
I'll just write down a couple of the steps.1 grams per mole.33 grams per centimeter cubed.
And so one mole of silicon is going to give me 12 centimeters cubed of silicon.
One mole of silicon is 12 centimeters cubed.
That's how P atoms I need in this mole of silicon to get what?
It's one to one.
Because each P atom had one extra electron.
Those other electrons are in the bonds.
They're not going into the conduction band.
It had one for one.0003 grams
of phosphorus.
That's not much.0003 grams of phosphorus, and I've bumped up the number of
carriers by orders of magnitude.
Semiconductors are kind of discovered in the 1800s.
Slack.
One fewer electrons, but it really wants to make those four bonds.
The material isn't happy if you break one.
It takes it.
And that leaves behind a positive charge.
This is called a hole.
That's called a hole.
If I take an electron off of an atom, it's positively charged.
That's really important, because these positive charges effectively are like electrons.
They're like negative charges, but they're positive.
And you can imagine the brilliance of the naming.
Those are N type semiconductors.
It's got negative charge in the conduction band.
P type, P means positive.
I'm going to grab it from somebody.
I don't care who.
But you get charts like this.
You see that?
Because I've got one fewer electron than carbon.
I could also dope silicon and germanium.
I'd say carbon, silicon, germanium.
And that's the first transistor.
That's the only time metric we can use.
This is a big deal.
This led to the whole revolution.
It's literally 75% of this is in your phone.
And there's the data on the cost.
You're literally using this semiconductor to generate electricity by shining light on it.
This is how we see it in our class.
And this is already on planet Earth, because you can see those chemistries that are in the
atmosphere have already absorbed.
Those are absorbing.
That's why it doesn't look smooth.
But the problem is that it's a constrained optimization problem.
I don't have an atom.
And I might grab most of that spectrum.
I might absorb most of it.
No.
You won't absorb any photons.
Energy comes in from the sun.
It excites an electron.
This is how PowerPoint sees it.
Leaves behind a hole, and you get them out.
That's a solar cell.
There's some sweet spot.
And that's what is plotted here.
It should have a slightly higher gap, and you'd get to higher efficiency.
And a lot of solar cell research is on getting as close to this point as you can.