TOCW | MIT3_091F18_lec26_300k
This is a great day.
We're having our second lecture on glass. We're going to continue the chemistry of glass.
It's geared towards freshmen.
That didn't seem right.
So next week you will still get a quiz that you have for your studying because I know you'll miss it.
You might want to know about some of the things we talked about Monday.
I have two glasses.
They form from liquids, and they're cooled to some temperature I call T1.
That's important.
One glass is formed.
I'm going to go like this.
But I've said in the question T1 is greater than Tm.
T1 is greater than Tm.
Tm is out here where there's a different transition that occurs, and it turns into a crystal.
Sorry.
I'm going to go like this.
I'm making mistakes on purpose.
And this is the fundamental challenge.
This axis is not time.
But we're plotting it on something that doesn't involve time, and that can lead to confusion.
This slope is a thermal expansion coefficient.
This has cooled faster.
This is slower.
Remember, silicon oxide, oxide, silica, alumina.
We talked about that.
We already know them.
But what I want to talk about today is how they can be engineered. And I'm a bulky thing, and I'm trying to move around in the liquid, crystal complexity.
Glass could form.
Glass could form.
I didn't even realize that happened.
It doesn't get there.
Those spots, some of you may have seen these.
This wants Va.
This wants to have volume-well, this cools first.
This is now a glass.
And I should say glass solid, so it's solidified.
And this wants to have a lower volume-lower volume.
It wants a lower volume, but that's been frozen at a higher volume.
That's it.
It's right here.
It pulls it in.
This is what he does in his free time.
He just throws these big glass-bowling parties.
They're very popular.
But we like 3091 students.
We'll try to give them preference.
So the dots that were on that windshield are formed by air coolant.
One was cooled in water.
I was never able to shatter this head with a hammer.
Most people can't do it.
Five, four, three, two, one.
I'm going to leave this.
Thanks, Peter.
Thanks, Peter.
It also doesn't break.
These are two guys from Corning.
And we can listen to this.
We call it compressive strength.
It sounds like the same principle as how an arch provides strength in structural engineering.
I just want you to tip that hammer past its center point.
That's good writing.
--the power of compressive strength.
Na2O is going to go 2Na+ plus O2-.
Notice a pattern.
And I won't draw all of them.
And you have these bridges, and all of these oxygens are bridges in glass.
But Americans are OK with it.
It's my chemical scissors.
They'll want to hang out close by these.
And this is called chain scission. For Tg of soda-lime glass, it's 500 C.
We're talking about silica in this class.
Silicon is called the network former.
Those are called network modifiers.
These are just terms that you will hear and see when you think about glass-network formers,
network modifiers.
And I don't need you to remember all of these terms, but I want to show you because this is how glass
is engineered.
That's basically quartz.
It's a really thick material.
And people care a lot about viscosity when they work with glass.
I can still shape it.
I can make a window.
They're left in there.
You can substitute them out.
That's potassium.
And I expose it to a potassium bath.
I can now substitute those for potassium.
That's causing the same stress.
This is Gorilla Glass.
I don't remember.
We can make chemically active glass.
I can go on.
And that's all they did.
They just didn't know why things were happening.
So the point is the last 20 centuries, we were really just getting warmed up when it comes to this
material.
That has fundamentally changed.
And I'll give you one example.
They're solar cells for the electricity.
He puts it in a container, and he's got a 3D printer that he's made.
It's entirely solar powered.
And she can print lots of different designs now using glass.
She has a cool video.
And there is the printhead.
I love this.
This is from a few years ago.
And what they talk about-this is what I like.
Wine glasses are reassuringly safe.
It wanted to go and become a metal, a crystal.