MITOCW | MIT3_091F18_lec03_300k
Welcome to the third lecture of 3091.
That's our goal today.
And we're going to start talking about models of the atom.
I'm just saying.
Density in the periodic table.9 grams per centimeter cubed.
I won't write it out.
It's 0.5 centimeters cubed.95 grams.95 grams, I have 2.95 divided by that number, 69.0423 moles.
It's a much bigger number.0423 times na atoms.5 times 10 to the 22nd atoms.
And by the way, the atomic mass unit is nothing.
It's just a mass unit.66 times 10 to the minus 27th kilograms.
Good counting.
Everything in your life can be understood if you understood the electronic structure of the elements.
We built it on Friday.
We talked about elements.
We did a few reactions.
What causes that difference?
And that starts with the discovery of the electron.
We'll have this board.C.
We're going with that.
But we need to understand them in order to explain this.
We need to understand them.
It led to nothing less than the understanding of all of nature.J. Thomson.J.
He's credited with discovering the electron.
There is his lab.
And these things were around.
They're called cathode ray tubes.
Cathode ray tubes.
I'll talk about that in a few minutes.
And that's the photographic plate.
Something.
But he didn't know what was happening.
What could it be?
It's responding to an external field.
Atoms were not the ultimate form of matter.76 times 10 to the 11th coulombs per kilogram.
They knew that the negative charges would repel.
For the cathode especially.
Independent of the metal.
That meant this thing that he was observing for the first time was fundamental.
There's something fundamental about it.
This was a really big deal.
And so the detective story goes on.
1807.
That's how I'm liberating them.
And that was Thomson's model.
It's really cool.
That's not happening.
The top and bottom of the chamber consisted of electrically charged plates.
He introduced a source of x-rays which can cause creation of charges when they strike matter.
When there is no voltage of light, the fall of the droplets is determined by the mass and the viscosity
of air through which they fall.6 times 10 to the minus 19th Coulombs.
But it was pretty clear.
You could never get below that.
Alive.
You make mistakes.
I mean this.
Progress has only to do with what you choose to do with failure.
It really is.
I can paint pictures.
And this really is the first television screen.
It's just magnetic fields.
Right?
The era of screens.
We don't use cathode ray tubes.
I was going to say, ask your grandparents.
There were a lot of chemistries that were used for this screen.
Green was easy.
Yellow was easy.
Red was hard.
Red was hard.
They couldn't get a good red.
The answer was that there was a phosphor that worked, but it was yttrium orthovanadate with a little
bit of europium added to it.
Just a little bit of europium.
They had this one cave.
You got to go to it.
That's pretty cool.
That's a cool cave.
That's worth visiting.
These negative charges called electrons.
The electron has a very small mass.
And there was a question.
This part of the story relies on another type of energy that was being discovered at the time.
And you all may recognize this as radiation.
That's radioactivity.
That means they gave off these rays of energy.
You had Henri Becquerel.
Notice I didn't even try.
But she won two Nobel prizes.
And he did the same thing.
And we now know that this is beta, this is gamma, and that's alpha.
And that's what he did.
So alpha must be positively charged.7 thickness is 0.7 microns.
And he shot these alpha particles at it.
It's kind of neutral.
That's not what he saw.
You'd get a little bit of deflection.
That model of the atom did not work.
You had a very different picture.
They knew they were sort of far away.
There is a lot of space.
There's a lot of space, that the radius of the atom is 100,000 times bigger than the radius of the
nucleus.
How empty are they?
But this is where you find true meaning.
And the rest is empty.
That's not just the universe, but the atom.
We think they're going around here.
But we thought they were.
We're going quantum.
Friday.
We need some way out of this.
He said, let's go over here. And then Bohr goes on.
We're saying that word.
It's a beautiful moment.
The transitions of an electron from one energy level of the atom to another can only have certain
values.
They cannot continuously roam around.
They can't.
They're quantized.
And this is closed in 1912.
We're building up the full understanding of the atom.
But it doesn't work.99% of all hydrogen is just that thing on the left, a proton and an electron.
It's still got neutral charge.
It's called deuterium.
You can make it.
So atoms have these three things in them.
They've got the neutrons, the protons, and the electrons.
They're now put out there.
And this is called the atomic number.011 AMU, or grams per mole.
That's what's in the table.
And the stable isotopes.
Stable isotopes.723 AMU.
That's what's in the periodic table.
Technetium and promethium.