MITOCW | MIT3_091F18_lec29_300k
We're going to pick up where we left off on Monday.
We talked about how things dissolve.
And that's where I want to start today, and that's silver chloride.
And I'm putting it into a beaker.
And the water is l, because it's everywhere.
So that reaction is going to give us silver ions-with chlorine ions and some more water.
So oftentimes, we leave the water out.
Oftentimes we don't really write the water, because it's on both sides.
It's not necessarily being consumed.
The concentration of the water isn't changing.
But the solubility product is focusing in on the dissolution of these ions.
And that's where we got to on Monday.
That's Ksp.
It doesn't change.
This equilibrium product is fixed.
And that has a very important meaning.7 times 10 to the minus 10th.
Units are coming.
It will depend on temperature.
But those are equal.3 times 10 to the minus fifth.
Units in this case, moles per liter squared. I'm at point B.
And I've got my concentration of chlorine, concentration of silver.
And I'm here.3 times 10 to the minus fifth.
And that's kind of boring.
That's very important.
That is equilibrium.
I just add chlorine.
I have to get to equilibrium.
That's the only way to do that.
And that has a name.
And that's what I want to talk about next.
That is called the common ion effect.
OK.
And that is that position of equilibrium will move.
It's still equilibrium, but it's moving on that green curve to counteract change.
This is a very general principle.1 moles per liter of sodium chloride.1 moles per liter of sodium chloride into this container of the silver chloride, I'm basically
going to get 0.1 moles per liter of chlorine ions that I just
dumped into the container.
But the sodium is not going to do anything.
That's going to mess with my equilibrium.3 times 10 to the minus fifth.1.1 moles per liter of chlorine ions from the salt, from sodium chloride.
I'm adding a whole bunch of chlorine.
And so the amount of silver has got to go down.1.
That's going to react with the silver ions.
And so the equilibrium is more solid forms.
That's not a good E. More solid forms.3 times 10 to the minus fifth minus x.1 minus x.
I've added in a common ion.
This is the common ion effect.7 times 10 to the minus 10th.1 minus x times 1.
And this is a really big number in comparison.1.
That'll make the math a lot easier.1 times 1.3 times 10 to the minus fifth minus x.7 times 10 to the minus ninth.
That is the common ion effect.
And it changes the solubility.
I added in a little bit of some other salt that had chlorine ions.
And all of a sudden, silver chloride precipitates out.
This is kind of cool.
It's pretty cool stuff.
That is the common ion effect.
One more question.
This is cool.
Which of the following will be required in the least amount to dissolve the same amount of BaSO4?
I don't need any constants or math.1 molar or 0.
It's going to precipitate.
Stick with pure water in this case.
That's the common ion effect.
That's it.
This is called carbonic acid.
So carbonic acid goes like this.
And the shell also has an equilibrium reaction that happens.
The shell of a sea creature is in dynamic equilibrium with the ocean.
We just went through this.
Those are what I'm talking about.
That's why this works.
Works sounds like a positive thing.
That is what's happening.
And we now can understand it in terms of the concepts that we've just learned.
It depends on which studies you read.18.18.07.8.
That's why they use 7.8 in the experiments of the pteropods.
That is what I want to talk about next.
It has a very definite meaning to it.
And you could feel it.
You could feel it in this whole thing.
So an acid, it's a dissolution reaction, dissolution.
It's what we've been talking about.
I'm going to call out the acid and the proton that it gives separately.
OK, so this is HA.
You see it's right there.
H+ is not stable in water.
But you will see H+ written all over the place.
OK, H+ in water is not.
And that is that these are-notice that these are related.
And there was a lot of experimentation before this.
B is bitter.
One reacts with metals.
This had been going on for centuries, this investigation into properties of acids and bases.
Quiet snapping.
I got it.
I'm there.
I'm right there.
But we know that that's H3O+.
These things lead to really small concentrations.
And so Soren Sorensen.
By the way, his research was funded by a beer company, and it was all about the taste of beer.
He called it looking at proteins, but it was about beer.3 times 10 to the minus fifth.
That's not efficient.
But Sorensen wasn't happy with that.
You simplified it.
And that's simply minus the log.
You can.
I'm going to talk about these ions in solution.
I don't want to write it out every time.
I'm just going to have a simple scale.
By the way, vinegar-OK, wine is around 3 and 1/2.
Vinegar is around 2.
It's eager wine.
And blood.
That's what we're doing to the ocean.
These are dissolution reactions.
But there's a little bit going back as well.
But you know that it's actually H3O+.
OK, but you can put H+, no problem.
It can deliver OHor H3O+.
There's nothing in it.
I didn't add anything to it.
It's just pure water, H3O+.
That's neutral.
And in fact, you can see that that pH is 7.
And that's what we're going to start with on Monday.
And one more, I'm going deep.