
But that will probably come.
You never know.
And you can see that there is a pretty wide distribution.
So the average was in the solid B range territory.
The standard deviation was 12.
And sometimes some people listen to music, some of the other things.
That's not the point I want to make.
That's when you do the work.
You've got to get through that.
You've got to know that it takes hard work.
I'm a noble gas.
But I also was trying to teach you guys about X-rays.
There are two kinds of X-rays.
And we learned about those on Friday.
But I'll just jump to the two kinds of x-rays that you get.
So those electrons coming off the cathode are going really fast.
And that's when they give off this continuous radiation.
The incoming electron transferred all of its energy to the photon.
That is Bremsstrahlung.
And that voltage is high.
Lots of kinetic energy.
So now those electrons are hitting the metal.
Nice.
Good electrons.
And there's a metal atom.
And it gets deflected.
And that deflection loses energy.
And that loss of energy goes into a photon.
They're x-rays.
Very nice.
OK.
Good.
There's another type of X-ray.
And that was the second type that we talked about on Friday.
Those are called characteristic.
But it's just the quantum numbers.
Maybe the electron is excited.
Maybe the electron is kicked out.6 electrons, these are keV of energy.
These are very high energies.
It's X-ray high in energy.
We use the k because that's the final place the electron goes when it decays down.
You would have the L peaks.
They don't appear until you get to that certain energy.
You fired it.
For copper, it's 8 keV.
For molybdenum it's 17.5.
So it all makes sense from the concepts we've learned.
It's super clear.
I can increase or decrease-well, I can't go below the threshold.
But I can't go above it.
And that peak is characteristic of the metal.
That's really useful because I've got now a flashlight.
I can predict what it is.
We're going to use that flashlight.
Those are like distances between layers.
It's called diffraction.
Many of you may not know what this.
This is called a CD.
And this is 500 nanometer light.
This never gets old.
And I want to do it onto crystals.
And there's another plane of atoms beneath that.
I'm going to have some light shining on this.
And it's going to be reflected.
It's going down.
They're waves.
They're just waves.
That's just some simple geometry.
That's what they said.
And these are reflected X-rays.
We're not using X-rays to get the structure of DNA.
I'm going to show how that works.
This is true for constructive interference.
And I'm going to shine them on a sample.
And I'm going to measure.
And I shine x-rays.
I've got a source of x-rays.
And we'll just filter out one of these lines.
And I see a spot in my detector.
You would get some angle where there's interference.
For cubic crystals, we know d.
This is distance between Miller planes in cubic crystal.
I'm saving time.
I wrote xtal.
I know d.54 Angstroms.
This is fixed by the crystal.
We're not changing that.
And I'm going to use a copper source.
So d equals 1.
It's also equal to that.
We'll do a little division.
They must not change.
That is at the heart of X-ray diffraction.
That is at the heart of it.
There's another thing that we can observe.
You plot X-ray diffraction spectra.
This is a beautiful thing.
I'm seeing a crystal.
Those aren't just peaks.
Those are planes in a crystal.
But that's not how we start.
That's my goal.
The detector changes by 2 theta.
This comes from geometry of the planes.
And that is not all reflections are allowed.
Any combination of hkl is OK.
It's the 200 plane.
It comes in.
There's a picture I drew.
There's that first X-ray bouncing off.
And those are nicely in phase.
In fact, that's called forbidden.
You won't see a signal.
The selection rule is whether it's ever allowed.
And for a simple cubic, everything's fine, because nothing would cancel out.
We won't go through and derive them all.
And there's no forbidden reflections.
That doesn't mean that there is no 100 plane in those crystals.
That's OK.
That's our goal.
That is what we do in X-ray diffraction.
And it turns out I got a recipe for you to follow to do this.
And it's on the previous slide.
And we've got five more minutes.
The first peak and the 2 theta is 38.43.1083.
And the next one, the next peak is 44.67.
And the sine square of that is 0.1444 so on.
This is a nice simple recipe to achieve our goal.
So the next column would simply be sine squared theta divided by sine squared theta min.
I'm setting the top row to 1.
Good.
We're almost there.
We're almost there.
That's good.
It leaves us with a sense of anticipation and excitement.
I have a simple recipe for you to accomplish this goal.
That's where we're going with this.
We're so close.