 It's OK.
I'll take what I can get.
And I want to go back to the properties I've put here, the properties we've talked about.
That will change the properties.
So this kind of goes in together to give you solid polymers.
Thermal-you can heat them.
We talked about some of those.
They're set.
They're really strong.
The whole thing catches fire.
It burns often.
So these kinds of plastics-the cross-link is really great.
And this is where we ended.
This crystal has one melting point.
It doesn't change.
Glass transition temperature can be tuned.
I'm below Tm.
This is so cool.
That's so cool.
That's in here.
So crystal melts, xtol melts.
I wanted to make sure that we understood this plot in the context of these polymers.
On the other hand, it may also be tuned by some of these other things that you do, but it's a very
important part of the polymer property ecosystem.
OK.
Good.
You can also control polymer properties.
And it's really the composition and sequence.
Right?
Polymerization, a poly condensation it's called.
The condensation polymerization.
We had two different mers.
And we could have picked the box.
The thing is that we actually can even make copolymers with both approaches.
I can now alternate these.
What I mean when I write this is that I've taken these two polymers, and I've copolymerized.
That's really powerful, it turns out.
All sorts of interesting things can happen.
It can be engineered when you can control these blocks or these graphs.
I've made a cross-link built into the polymer itself.
And that's why you can see here.
The co is what's coming out of the side, and that's an ionic bond, so it's also called an ionomer.
And what happens?
They leave behind this oxygen that really wants the water because it's a negative charge.
You get the solution coming to the anion .
That's going to help this whole thing want to expand.
We tuned the charge.
That's cool.
OK.
There is nylon.
There's fiberglass.
You might have them at home at the sink.
It's got a triple bond nitrogen on it.
It's up there.
And you can make a whole bunch of kinds of nitrile rubber.
You've got ceramics.
So the polymers sit here.
All right?
Here's metals, and alloys, metallic gases.
Nature-I'm going to write this down nature.
Polymer engineer.
We have really two in most materials.
Copolymer-we're so proud of this nitrile.
There's a dicarboxylic acid.
And a diamine, and we're making polyamide.
I call that boring.
It's at six carbon atoms from hydrogen, but that's kind of boring.
But in nature, this box is an amino acid.
That's much more interesting. We can put six carbons in.
We're really proud of ourselves.
OK, if I take two amino acids.
There's an amino acid.
I've made a two-unit polymer.
It's not a polymer.
That's called a peptide bond.
The possibilities are endless.
That's how we are made.
OK, so that's cool.
Spider is an incredible polymer synthesis machine.
It's an incredible polymer synthesis machine.
It's making protein.
These are polymers.
There's a branch place where it knows to put it. It also can put other types of polymer depending on
what it needs.
It's doing condensation polymerization.
It's five times stronger than steel.
Spider silk is five times stronger. We can't do that.
It's going to shatter.
Spiders don't have to do that.
Spider webs get dusty.
They lose their stickiness.
We don't even come anywhere near it in terms of where we are.
I already talked about the oceans.
These are tires.
Those are tires.
Those are tire mounds.
One direction is in self-healing polymers.
This is a very exciting direction.
You can do that on larger scales.
You can look up some of this stuff.
This was published last year.
And there is good work going on in this direction.