
And then next week, we're going to talk about crystals.
It was in the cases that we talked about.
But it's to a lone pair on that atom.
So the numbers work.
And this is what's going on in the liquid.
And they're talking.
And that's happening all over the place.
It depends.
It's a great question.
You can make tetrahedral.
There's many forms of ice, 12 different ways to make a solid of ice.
People try to write the physics of the hydrogen bond as 1 over r cubed.
That is not true.
It's complicated.
It's not a polar molecule.
There's no hydrogen bond.
It's always there.
Dipole-dipole London and hydrogen, just London.
If you look at the big picture, we have done the electronic structure of atoms and molecules.
Dipole-dipole, London dispersion, hydrogen bonding.
And of course, we're excited about this.
And we're going to make solids out of them.
And this week, this week we're going to do the electronic structure.
And next week, we're going to do atoms.
And next week Friday, we're going to break a bunch of stuff with parents.
But it's also going to depend on the bonding.
It's going to depend on how the electronic structure comes together.
And it's going to depend on how the atoms come together.
That's how we're going to start.
But we've got to move on because this is just two atoms, two atoms.
We've got a lot.
It all came from LCAO.
LCAO is the linear combination of atomic orbitals.
But I can also subtract one in the middle.
And we know that the number of molecular orbitals has to equal the number of atomic orbitals.
It's almost like it kind of cancels out.
But so four 1s orbitals.
I'm just adding and subtracting.
This is one node.
And zero nodes.
I just went to four.
I just went to four.
There's 4, 5.
These don't look discrete.
We call that a band.
10 to the 24th s orbitals.
We can't.
It's the 1s band.
We've already learned them for molecules.
They holds for bands and solids.
So filling is like MOs.
The band is filled halfway.
And we know that it's half filled because it's hydrogen.
One s, one s, sigma, sigma, star.
Same is true in solids.
But you have to know the filling.
And I will talk about metals on Friday.
And there's a gap.
That's a different kind of material.
2p band.
And we'll be talking about some examples.
That's not a metal.
That's between an s and a p band.
And then the filling determines the properties.
And they're so important.
They're so important.
I want to talk about these.
And we're going to see it through the vantage point of these electronic levels.
And then next week, we'll see it through the vantage point of atoms.
And this is unoccupied.
So unoccupied by electrons.
This is fully occupied by electrons.
Valence band.
And we use vb for short.
Conduction band.
So the conduction band and the valence band depend on the filling.
And there's one more definition we got to know about.
This is an extremely important property of materials, the electronic band gap.
And for diamond, it's really large.
For diamond, it's really large.
And it's something like 0.025 electron-volts.
It's kind of stuck in those bonds.
This is not going to carry electrons through the material.
I'm not a metal.
That's why it's called a semi conductor.
They kind of conduct electrons.
We can do the same thing for solids.
It's just like the atom.
I'm stuck.
It's just like we talked about with atoms.
This is also different.
There's diamond.
There's silicon.
There's germanium.
And you can understand this from what you know about the electron levels in atoms.
It happens to work for this column.
You're somewhere in the middle of a band.
And we'll talk about that on Wednesday.
They're stuck in these bonds.
This measures that.
This measures that.
You've also got some LEDs and some LEDs.
It gives you different energies of the photons.
And that's the second piece.
If LEDs were insulators, they wouldn't work.
Because the way an LED works is actually just the opposite.
That means that I must have different gaps.
That's what's happening on the right hand side.