TOCW | MIT3_091F18_lec36_300k
This is unbelievable.
Unbelievable.
This is making my day.
This is making my week.
This is incredible.
This is amazing.
This is awesome.
We've got T-shirts.
We'll get to those.
We've got welcome to the last lecture.
It means a lot to us.
It's slowing me down.
I can do it.
I'm going to get through it.
Because we didn't have time to get the lecture in on the second law before the recitation, which was
yesterday.
So Fick's first law was steady state.
In the law itself-I'll write it down here-was that the flux is equal to minus this diffusion constant
times the change in concentration over some distance.
That's J.
No.
That's awesome.
This is just getting better.
I'll go fast.
By the way, it's actually quite interesting.
It does have a small dependence on concentration.
We often don't include it.
By the way, that doesn't mean that it depends on time.
We'll consider it constant.
It just breaks down either way, or it's too brittle.
I'm not going to go through it all.
That's why we call it Cs.25% weight percent carbon, and I carborize the surface.
I carborize only a certain amount of it.2.
You can imagine at t0, you've got this.
You'd think I'd have learned.
36 lectures, and I still worked my way into a corner.
That is what you get when you solve Fick's second law.
That is what you get when you solve Fick's second law.
And now the error function is just a function.
You don't need to worry about the details of this.
You can think about it as like any other function.
You might get an error function in life, in IRF.6.
This is how we solve diffusion problems depending on time.
So the time is seven hours.
There is your CS.
There's your c naught.
You better believe that this is really important.
This is how we make stuff.
You go to some of these places and there's a new building.
Literally every block, there's a new building being built.
That takes this stuff.
That takes a lot of ovens at a lot of really high temperatures.
It's clinker.
It's called the clinker.
It's simply a calcium silicate group.
You've got to make mixtures of alite and belite.
They have different names.
Why It's in the chemistry.
It's in the chemistry.
We're making a lot of it.
There's a 164 tower in Dubai that opened in 2010 that took a billion kilograms of this stuff.
And there's a lot of problems that have happened over the years.
There's metal pipe corrosion.
This is a great chemistry problem unsolved.
That's not a sure thing.
There's a whole line of thinking on putting it in the ocean.
Interesting.
And in 2009, construction was planned in Illinois.
In 2010, it was canceled.
In 2010, it was restarted.1 billion.
But the timescales are long.
That's a huge part of the challenge with this.
I like this paper.
I'm pointing it out because they say that they used Fick's diffusion law.
They modeled the carbon uptake by applying Fick's diffusion law.
It actually matters.
And it's in there.
It's actually in there.
I'm going to get sad.
This is what we have talked about all semester.
This is what we have learned.
We filled it out with balancing reactions.
We filled it out with the periodic table, that one.
That's you guys that have learned that material.
We thank the people.
She cares deeply.
We wouldn't have any shot at it without Laura.
And I feel like we have that for this class.
It's Laura.
So thanks to the TAs.
No.
There is you.
That's good.
I'm grateful to all of you.
That is not why you came to MIT.
Those are reasons why you came here.
And I tried to do that.
And the thing is about these challenges, one I just talked about in many others, it's not that these are
things that we need to do soon.
There is an urgency of now about these things.
And so these challenges, it's not like something happens over here, happens over there.
These are planetary challenges.
These cover the whole thing.
It's all on the line.
It doesn't care.
And that's why you're here.
That's why you're here.
What do you want to do about that?
And there's a lot of things you can do.
I don't mean that you have to work on one of these things we've talked about in this class.
That's not what I mean.
You might have figured that out before you came here.
You may know-gesundheit-already way before you got here.
You may have no clue what you want to do when you graduate.
All of those are fine.
All of those are fine.
Bear with me.
It's how we think.
All of that is kindness.
We need that vector.
We need that vector in this world.
You guys have to keep doing that.
We know places where that's already the case.
And that's OK.
And the last thing is passion.
And this involves your talents.
That's what I'm talking about.
That's why we're here.
That's why we're here.
You guys are amazing.
That's just incredible.
I'm going to leave.
Thanks.
That was amazing, you guys.