
It's a goody bag day.
It's a good day.
So the concentration is equal to the moles per liter.
What's molarity?
It's moles per liter.
There is the rate.
There's a change in the concentration with time.
That's called the rate law.
That's what I want out of a rate law.
All of these things impact how the reaction happens.
But I will talk about each of those other items today.
That's our goal.
And we're going to talk about how concentration plays a role in reaction rates.
And it turns into something called B. It's green.
There's a reaction.
Now the very first thing that I can think about in this is that nothing is lost.
Nothing is lost.
You see that?
The container is there.
I haven't lost any mass.
That's OK.
That's kind of what we're doing.
You can see it.
One is that you'll notice that the rate is always positive.
But we like positive numbers when we talk about rate.
But I want a law.
We're going to do this with the reactants.
So k times a concentration of A to the m times the concentration of B to the n.
OK.
K is equal to a rate constant.
And this is going to depend on conditions like temperature, pressure, solvent.
--from experiments.
No.
You can't just get that from the way the reaction is written.
You can get mass conservation and the relationship between rate, rate, rate.
But you can't get the rate law unless you do some measurements.
That doesn't change.
OK?
So zeroth order.
If we go with what we just wrote down.
2 N20 goes to 2 N2 plus O2.
OK.
I'm sorry.
Rate is independent.
Rate is independent of concentration.
OK.
It means something in terms of our rate law.
And that means that k must have units of molarity over time.
OK.
You can feel it.
The reaction of the liver, the enzymes that are breaking this down is not dependent on the
concentration.
But there's another thing we can do with beer, which is we can integrate it.
This is the integrated rate law.
That's the integrated law.
I'm not even going to write it out.
OK.
If the concentration of A doubles the rate doubles.
The rate doubles.
The overall units are molarity over time.
Linear lines.
Straight lines.
I'm OK with it because it's true.
That's good.
If I had a linear plot with Ln concentration versus time you know it's first order.
This molecule is called cisplatin.
But it's not active in this state with the two chlorine's there.
This has to happen in a time frame that we know very well.
So this rate has been studied very carefully for this reaction.
That's one way to know what order you have.
You could take ratios at two different times.
And by the way, the slope could tell me something about the rate constant.
Plots, order, linear.
OK.
The half life is a very powerful tool.
A number of you may have heard of carbon dating.
And we know if these animals are breathing it in.
We know that they should have that concentration at A0, except this isn't a concentration this is a
number of atoms.
The radioactive decay of c14 is a first order process.
This is it.
This is everything we just talked about before we switch to temperature.
The units of the rate constant.
We're talking about how fast the concentrations change.
I want to highlight those two factors.
So energy of the collision.
We're going to start with the energy of the collision and we're going to talk about that in terms of
where you get that energy.
You get it from heat.
OK.
You were feeling it.
Crickets and then intrinsic carriers.
They have barrier.025 eV.
That is Arrhenius.
We would use R or r for a mole.
OK.
Catalytic converters is one of the most important technologies for pollution that has been invented in
over the last 50 years.
It's changed the game in terms of what comes out of that car.
Right?
OK.