
And all of this is called the dislocation.
You take it out.
You can have that occur in a material that's ionic.
A-ha.
But that got me thinking.
Although the relative valency works well for that select group of alloys, it does not apply to the
periodic table as a whole.
This is a new thing for me.
The valency rule certainly depends on the system.
It was a great question.
Zero dimensional, Monday.
One dimensional, today.
It starts at MIT in the 1940s.
MIT students back then were a little bit older, I guess.
It broke.
They were studying the relationship of the mechanical breaking to the material of the parachute.
They just have a tug of war with a parachute.
And that is where the name comes from.
We're going talk about it in terms of a wire.
OK.
And I'm going to apply a force this way.
OK.
They're like springs.
And that means that it's reversible, as I just said.
Reversible.
And the displacement-so it's reversible displacement.
This is an elastic stretch.
Hooke's law is going to apply.
So Hooke's law applies.
Hooke's law.
And that is called the plastic regime.
And this is a permanent shape change.
Permanent shape change.
The sea of electrons allows those metals to be ductile.
And that has to do with the bonding with the electronic structure.
100 times lower.
It doesn't stay elastic.
And in fact, they explain it all.
They explain it all.
It's not just deforming in any random way.
It's deforming in a very specific way.
It's deforming in a very specific way.
The plastic deformation mechanism is called slip.
The mechanism is called slip that leads to plastic deformation.
This is a 2D picture of a lattice.
I love this.
I can just sit and look at this-this is so cool.
So many planes.
I'm going to the other side.
That's one of the planes.
That's one of the planes.
Cool.
That's all from Monday.
They're just hanging out.
These are planes.
These are crystallographic planes.
That is called a dislocation.
We'll go back to this.
That is called a dislocation.
It's called a dislocation.
Another way is just get ears of corn.
I did this last night.
That's really true.
And I looked inside.
This is from the internet.
It does sometimes.
There's a dislocation.
It's very similar to what we're looking at.
This one, where you insert an extra plane in this way is called an edge dislocation.
There's another type of dislocation that we won't talk about in this class called the screw dislocation.
You can look it up.
It's a different type of line defect.
An edge dislocation.
Edge dislocations in corn.
These are groups of dislocations.
They're places where you've got this extra plane.
And the movement is critical.
The movement is critical.
Those dislocations and their movement is why this doesn't crack.
It's why this point is 100 times lower than you might have thought.
We'll do that on the next slide.
I'm starting over here and watch the dislocation.
Or a dislocation could come in and allow me to translate a whole set of bonds over by one.
One bond at a time, one bond at a time.
Bam.
That's why that doesn't happen.
It just takes too much energy.
That's OK.
We share.
I will never turn down a goody bag.
It's called a slip plane.
We got a phone going on there.
That's what you're doing.
And I will come back to that.
It's resolved at the atomic level-and I'll finish this-at the atomic level along that slip plane.
That's what it does.
And it resolves it by those dislocations moving.
In the material, I've got stick and ropes defined by the plane.
Some of those planes, they're beautiful-the yellow one, but it doesn't have that many atoms per
area.
I got it wrong.
This rug weighs-rugs are really heavy.
Who knew?
It's really a pain.
It doesn't take much force to do that.
The slip direction is the other part.
This is what you see.
No.
OK. You could also look at the 110 plane.
The 110 plane.
Because you can calculate the planar densities.
It only counts in the plane if the plane goes right through the atom.
OK.
Two.
OK.
1/6, 1/6, 1/6.
2.
I've got the same number of atoms in those planes of the unit cell-of those planes drawn within
these unit cell boxes.
That's not going to have a higher packing than that.
That's going to have the highest planar density.
You know it.
That's going to have the highest planar density.
It's going to deform along its closest packed plane.
And you can also look at the directions.
Good.
The slip plane and the direction.
That's called the slip system.
OK.
Boom.
They come to the rescue.
It's very cool.
They're still kind of tangling.
But there's something that happens now.
There's something that happens.
What's going to happen?
I can't go anymore.
I'm blocked.
I'm blocked.
There's actually a name for that.
There's a name for that because it really changes the mechanical properties.
Cold working.
I've taken away the plastic deformation.
It can't do as much plastic deformation, because that only happens by motion of dislocations and I'm
locking them in.
I labeled the fracture point.
That's called the yield because it's where it yields to plastic deformation.
This is plotting-look at that.
Cold work is work hardening.
Work hardening is adding dislocations on purpose-on purpose.
But the ductility goes down.
That's not why a paperclip breaks.
You didn't take 3.
That's a pretty big crack.
I am a big fan of wind.
This is install capacity for wind turbines.
So the blades here are critical.
You need to hit just the right balance of ductility.
By the way, this ice comes off at hundreds of miles an hour in chunks.
These farmers are not happy about that.
And those are bugs.
It also can damage the blade itself.
It all comes down to understanding this curve.
And in the broader sense of materials, this to me is a very exciting ask.
Good.
Kilograms per meter cubed.
Different materials are here-rubbers, foams.