
I mentioned this before.
But I wanted you guys to have the big picture of what we've done.
It's even color coded.
These are meant to see if you have learned the concepts.
Lots of partial credit.
We're not about the last decimal on some calculation.
We don't need more than that.
And we'll do another break.
Sulfur has 16.
And chlorine is 17.
What would this look like for chlorine?
I gave you this.
But that's not taking everything you know into account.
But I haven't really done much more to shield those outer electrons.
You might not even know quantitatively.
Octet means for hydrogen, two.
That's good.
That's not good.
Wrong number of electrons.
Formal charge.
Formal charges are all over the place.
Lowest not lowest formal charge.
Very easy fix.
You can check the formal charge.
You can check the total charge.
And it's what happens when you have structures that look similar.
These both look good.
These are called resonance structures.
No shape yet.
Next week, shape.
This week, no shape.
And what we know about that is that that's going to make that bond stronger.2 angstroms.5ish.
1.2 over here 1.5 over there.
I can measure those bond lengths.
And I do that.
But in experiment, the bond length is 1.3.
It's not different.
Chemists are very particular about how you use arrows.
And they really like curvy arrows in particular.
Those curvy arrows help us just see how the changes in the electrons happened in these resonance
structures.
So the formal charge here was minus 1.
The formal charge here, 6 minus 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
I did not add or take away charge, in this case.
I got it added up.
And the reason is that resonance structures only involve the curvy arrow motion of electrons.
That's not a resonance structure.
That is not a residence structure.
These are three resonance structures.
These are three resonance structures And you can see how they go.
Charge on the molecule, that's a 2 minus.
N, three lone pairs, single bond C, triple bond sulfur.
5 minus 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 minus 2.
Sulfur 6 minus 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
That looks better.
What do we do?
There's one last point that we need to learn.
And it has to do with the formal charges.
And it's a general rule in writing Lewis structures.0.
And chi for sulfur is around 2.5.
So the same rule applies the other way.
And it all ties together.
You could get different structures by moving electrons.
And that's benzene. we talked about
him on Wednesday.
They could kind of measure some things.
But none of it worked.
And Pauling wrote a number of structural formulae have been proposed for benzene, but none of
them is free from very serious objections.
The way they wrote stuff.
You have these two structures that benzene actually averages over.
These are resonance structures.
These are resonance structures.
It's delocalized.
And that sets up the properties of benzene.
This is getting me excited.
I'm just going to keep adding benzene.
I've got graphite.
That's what graphite is.
It's these very large sheets of benzene.
One is diamond.
And there's a candle.
And you've talked about combustion.
We talked about that.
We also talked about how you need your periodic table on that date.
You need to talk about LEDs.
And I'm not saying that all of these conversations involving knowledge you gained in this class will
lead to this place of seriousness, but it could lead to engagement.
It could.
But this is the most stable form of carbon.
And they're able to literally see every single atom as they break apart the particle.
They got down to 0.4 angstrom resolution in that work.
It's a beautiful thing.
And I got to go this way.
I'm very excited.
I tried.
I got to work on my arm.
Too excited.
We'll have more.
And they also know they're meant to be broken.
And by the same token, you can go the other way.
Shapes are going to play an important role in molecular stability.
But at the end of the day, you've got to come back to properties.
Covalent solids have a low melting point.
Ionic solids are typically high.
Covalent solids are poor conductors.
You can't just go by one metric.
You got to look at the properties.